My Neighbor Totoro















(Driving through the Japanese countryside)
Satsuki: Daddy, <do> you want any caramel candy?
Father: Oh, thank you very much, I would. <Is> anybody tired yet?
Satsuki: Mm-mmm. (I'm fine.)
Father: We're almost there.
Satsuki: Mei! Hide!
Satsuki: I thought he was a policeman! Hi!

(Arriving at the neighbors' house)
Father: Sorry to bother you, but are your parents around anywhere?
Father: Oh hi
Father: We're Kusakabes. We are just moving in. Nice to meet you.
Man: <It's a> pleasure to meet you! 
Father: (to Kanta) Thank you very much.

(At the gateway to the house)
Father: Everybody out.
Sastsuki: wow
Mei: Hey!
Father: Hang on. There.

(bridge)
Satsuki: Hey Mei, there is a bridge.
Mei: A bridge?
Satsuki: Fish! Look, it sparkled again. 
Father: So, do you like it?
Satsuki: It's terrific. A tunnel of trees! 
Satuski: Is that the house? 
Mei: Uh-huh!
Satsuki: Come on, Mei, run!

(At the house)
Satsuki: What a lot of neat old junk.
Mei: Old junk! 
Satsuki: Maybe it's haunted!
Mei: Haunted?
Satsuki: It's completely rotten.
Mei: oh-oh, it's going to fall down.
Satuki: It's gonna fall down!

Satsuki: Wow, Mei, look up. It's so tall.
Satsuki: Dad, what a tree! 
Father: That's a camphor tree.
Satsuki: A camphor. Camphor tree.
Mei: Camphor tree!

(In the room)
Satsuki: Hey Mei, look, an acorn.
Mei: Can I see it?
Satsuki: Oh, hey wait a second. There's some more over there.
Mei: Oh, I have my own acorn right here. Huh?
Father: Mei, how am I supposed to open the house (window shutters) up if you're in the way?
Mei: Acorns!
Satsuki: And I found a bunch of them in the room.
Mei: And they came from way up.
Father: Hmmm. Hm. Some squirrels must've dropped them.
Mei & Satsuki: Squirrels!
Father: Or maybe some other animal, perhaps a rat.
Satsuki: Yuk.
Mei: I want squirrels.
Man: Hey, uh, where am I going to put it?
Father: Ah, just bring it here, I'll open it up for you.
Father: Satsuki, go and open the kitchen door.
Satsuki: sure
Father: You will see it.
Satsuki: ok
Satsuki: Mei, come on.
Mei: Hey, wait! Hey, wait up!
Satsuki: Run faster, Mei!

(Satsuki opens the door)
Mei & Satsuki: Ahhhh!
Satsuki: Hm. Ready?
Mei: Uh-huh.
Mei: Bathtubs.
Satsuki: Right.
Satsuki: Nothing up there...
Mei: No.
Father: <The> bathtubs are in there.
Satsuki: We saw something move in there.
Father: A squirrel?
Satsuki: We're not sure. 
Satsuki: Well, they were'nt cockroaches or squirrels. Something black, and there were a lot of them.
Father: Hmmmmm....
Father: well...
Satsuki: any idea?
Father: Well, I'm pretty sure they were dust bunnies.
Satsuki: <Do> you mean real dust bunnies? Like in my picture book?
Father: Yes, on a nice day like this, ghosts won't be out.
Father: Well, ghosts are a lot harder to see. But when you suddenly move from a lighted room to a dark one, you can't see for a second, and that's when the dust bunnies come out. Got it?
Satsuki: That makes sense.
Satsuki: Come out, dust bunnies!
Mei: Come out! Or else we'd take your eyes out.
Father: What do you say we get to work now. We have to figure out where the steps are that lead up to the attic, right?
Satsuki: What?
Father: So you go find the way up, and we'll open all the windows upstairs.
Satsuki: Yeah!
Mei: Hey, wait for me!

(Searching the house, they go running from room to room)
Mei: Bathroom!
Satsuki: Nope.
Satsuki: Nothing here!
Mei: Nothing here!
Satsuki: Nope, nothing there!
Mei: Nothing there!
Satsuki: Can't find it.
Mei: Can't find it. 
Satsuki: Yes! I found it!

(Stairs)
Satsuki: Wor it's so dark.
Mei: Dust bunnies.
Mei: acorn.
Mei & Satsuki: Hey, dust bunnies, come out.
Satsuki: Are you up there, dust bunnies?
Satsuki: Guess what, something's really living upstairs after all!
Father: That's wonderful. 
Father: I've always wanted to have a haunted house. It's been my lifelong dream.
Man: oops 
Satsuki: (to father) Careful!
Mei: Guess what, Sis! I got one!

(Mei runs downstairs and into an old woman)
Granny: Eh?
Mei: Ah!
Father: Mei?
Granny: Oh! You are full of energy!
Father: Nanny's the lady who has the farm next door. She came over to help us out.
Satsuki: This is Mei, my sister. And I'm Satsuki.
Granny: <I'm> very pleased to meet both of you. My, my, what smart children. 
Granny: If I had known what a big hurry you were in to move, I would've cleaned the house up a bit.
Father: Nanny, you've done so much already.
Granny: I've been so busy in the rice paddies lately. I cleaned time to time.  
Satsuki: (to Mei) Oh my gosh, how did you get all that black on you?
Mei: I had a dust bunny right in my hand, but it's gone.
Satsuki: Mei, your feet!
Satsuki: My feet are black, too.
Granny: Eh? Eh-heh! It appears the soot sprites are hard at work.
Satsuki: Soot sprites?  
Satsuki: <Do> you mean those black little fuzzy things? that fly around the house and disappear upstairs?
Granny: Yes, they spring up in very old, empty houses
Granny: make everything dusty and soot-covered. 
Granny: I could see them too when I was a very small child. 
Granny: I'm glad that you too were able to see them.
Father: It couldn't have been a spirit monster, could it?
Granny: No, they are not such a scarry thing. 
Granny: If we all keep smiling, they will do no harm to us
Granny: and they will be gone (while we are forgetting about them). 
Granny: I'm sure that somewhere up in that ceiling, they're busily discussing plans for leaving the house.
Satsuki: Maybe they really will be gone.
Mei: Oh, too bad (how boring). 
Satsuki: What would you do if a huge one like this shows up? 
Mei: I'm not afraid of dust bunnies.
Satsuki: Well, maybe you can go to the bathroom by yourself at night.
Granny: (laughs) Come, come. The house needs cleaning up. So fetch a bucket and go get some water.
Satsuki: <Do> you mean from the stream?
Mei: Me, too.

(at stream)
Satsuki: Mei, you wait here, OK?
Mei: Did you get any fish?
Satsuki: It's coming out! It's coming out, Nanny!
Granny: Good, very good. Just keep at it till the water gets cold.
Satsuki: Right.

(At the kitchen)
Satsuki: Hey, you. Can I help you?
Kanta: This is from Mom to Grandma.
Satsuki: What's that?
Satsuki: Hey, wait up.  What's this? 
Granny: Kanta, isn't it? 
Kanta: Hey, your house is a haunted house.
Granny: Hey, Kanta (behave)! 

(Having lunch...)
Father: (laughs) Well, I remember doing the very same thing when I was his age.
Satsuki: I hate boys! 
Satsuki: But I love Nanny's Ohagi (sticky-rice covered with sweet red bean paste).  
Granny: Eat all you want.

(Later, saying goodbye to Granny)
Satsuki: Thank you for hard work. 
Father: (to man driving away) Thanks for your help!
Mei: Bye!

(Later, in the bathtub during the storm)
Mei: Daddy, this house is so old that it might collapse. 
Father: (chuckles) We would be in trouble because we've just moved in.
Father: (laughs very loudly) Try laughing out loud. Your feeling of being scared will be gone. 
Mei: I'm not scared at all.
Satsuki: (laughs very loudly)
Mei: Hey, I'm not, I mean it!

(The next morning, doing laundry)
Mei & Satsuki: One, two, one, two, one, two...
Father: That's it, give it all you've got.
Father: Laundry done! 
Mei & Satsuki: Yea!

(getting on the bicycle)
Satsuki: Let's go!
Satsuki: Nanny! Hi!
Father: Hello! You're working hard!
Granny: Are you all going together somewhere? 
Satsuki: We're going to visit Mommy in the hospital!
Granny: Oh you are so kind (respectable). Be sure to give <her> my regards! 
Satsuki: That way, Daddy, that way!

(At the hospital)
Satsuki: (to another patient) Good afternoon.
Patient: Welcome.
Mei: Mom! 
Mother: My love, you came! (I'm so happy to see you.)
Mei: Daddy took a wrong turn (and we almost got lost). 
Mother: Well! (to Satsuki) Come here. 
Satsuki: We got a day-off from school, the rice-planting day.
Mother: Wonderful.
Mei: Daddy is talking to the doctor. 
Mother: It's so good to be able to see you all. Please tell me about the new house. Do you feel settled? (Do you like it?)
Mother: Ah, do you mean it's a haunted house? 
Satsuki: yes.
Mei: Do you like a haunted house (or fuzzy ghosts), Mommy? 
Mother: Of course. I need to get well and meet the ghosts. 
Satsuki: Are you releived, Mei?
Mei:  Yes.
Satsuki: We were worried. What if you don't like ghosts. 
Mother: How about you two? 
Satsuki: I like them!
Mei: And I'm not afraid of them at all.
Mother: (laughs). Do you make Mei's ponytails, Satsuki? 
Satsuki: Yes.
Mother: Well done. (to Mei) You know, you're a very lucky girl.
Mei: She gets mad at me almost all the time
Satsuki: That's because you're not staying still. 
Mother: Satsuki, come here. Isn't your hair too short?
Satsuki: I like it this way.
Mei: Me too, me too. (Help me with my hair.)
Satsuki: Wait for your turn, Mei.
Mother: You got curly hair, Satsuki, just like how it was when I was a kid.  
Satsuki: Will my hair become like yours when I grow up? 
Mother: Probably. You are like me. 

(On the road home....)
Satsuki: Mommy looked a lot better.
Father: Yes, the doctor said she can be out of the hospital soon.  
Mei: Does "soon" mean tomorrow, Daddy?
Satsuki: Here comes Mei's "tomorrow". 
Father: Maybe not tomorrow, but it's pretty soon.
Mei: She said when she comes home, she's gonna sleep with me in my futon. 
Satsuki: Hey, didn't you say that you were big enough to sleep all by yourself? 
Mei: Mommy is special. 

(The next morning...)
Satsuki: Daddy, Daddy, wake up, it's morning.
Mei: Daddy, get up! 
Father: I must've overslept or something.
Satsuki: I need to pack my lunch starting today.
Father: I'm sorry, I completely forgot.
Satsuki: I made lunch for everybody, don't worry about it.
Mei: Hey, it's burning!
Satsuki: Just a minute.
Satsuki: OK, this one's for you, Mei.
Mei: Mine? 
Father: Mei, stop that. Sit down and eat.
Satsuki: Go ahead, wrap it yourself.
Michiko: (a schoolmate, outside) Hey, are you ready, Satsuki-chan?
Satsuki: Must be time to go. (to Michiko) O-Ka-ay!
Father: I can't believe you've made a friend already.
Mei: She called you "Satuki-chan", didn't she? 
Satsuki: Yep, and her name's Michiko, "Mich-chan". 
SatsukiL (Finishes eating and runs out the door) Done eating. Got to go. 
Father & Mei: Have a good day. 
Satsuki: (outside) Hi, good morning. 
Michiko: Good morning. Let's hurry.

(Later, in the garden)
Mei: Daddy, do I look like a young lady?
Father: Sure. Where are you off to with your lunchbox?
Mei: Just around the corner.
Mei: Is it lunch time yet?
Father: What? Already? 
Mei: Daddy, you run a flower shop. 
Mei: Tally-wallypogs <TADPOLES>
Mei: There's no bottom!
Mei: Found it! 

(Totoro sneezes)
Mei: Tell me who you are. Are you a big dust bunny?
Totoro: To To Ro.
Mei: Waaaaah!
Totoro: To To Ro.
Mei: Totoro? That's it! I bet you're name's Totoro., isn't it.
Totoro: Ro.
Mei: So you're really a Totoro.
(Totoro yawns)

(Later in the day, Satsuki returns from school)
Michiko: Bye-bye.
Satsuki: See you later.  
Satsuki: Daddy, I'm home!
Father: Welcome home. It's already afternoon. 
Satsuki: I was playing with Michiko. Where's Mei?
Father: I haven't even had lunch. I think Mei's out back. 
Satsuki: Mei? Mei?
Father: Mei?
Satsuki: Mei?
Satsuki: Daddy, over here! I found Mei's hat. 
Satsuki: Mei? Mei! Wake up! Wake up. Wake up, Mei, right now! 
Satsuki: You have no business sleeping in this place!
Mei: Where is Totoro? 
Satsuki: Totoro?
Satsuki: Were you dreaming?
Mei: A big Totoro was here with me.
Satsuki: You don't mean a big troll from our picture book, do you?
Mei: Yes, he said his name is Totoro. 
Mei: He was furry and had a big mouth like this, and there were a little one like this and another one like that...
Mei: And one this big sleeping.  
Satsuki: What?
Father: Oh, I found you guys. What a great hiding place like a secret base.
Satsuki: Daddy, Mei was just telling me she saw a big Totoro!
Father: Totoro?
Mei: Yes. This way.
Father: Hey, wait for me.
Mei: Where did it go?
Satsuki: Here?
Mei: No. I came to a big tree last time.
Satsuki: But this was the only trail. Mei! Mei, come back!
Mei: I really saw him! I'm not lying! I'm not lying.
Mei: You don't believe me.
Father: Neither Satsuki nor I said you are lying.
Father: I believe that you met the King of the Forest, Mei. 
Father: You were so lucky. But, you can't always see him. 
Father: Well, we haven't gone greeting, yet.
Satsuki: Greeting?
Father: Let's go to Tsukamori.
Father: Mei, you're getting heavier by the day.
Satsuki: Daddy, the camphor tree! What a tall tree.
Mei: I found it!
Satsuki: You're sure that's the one?
Mei: Yes.
Satsuki: Daddy, hurry up!
Mei: The hole is gone.  
Satsuki: You're sure it was here?
Mei: Yes. 
Satsuki: (to Father) It looks like the hole disappeared.
Father: Well, you can't always see him. 
Satsuki: Will that happen again? I want to see him, too.
Father: Maybe if you are lucky. 
Father: What a beautiful tree it is. This tree's been here for a long, long time. 
Father: You know, a long time ago, men and trees were the best of friends. 
Father: I saw this tree, and that's why I really liked our house in the first place. 
Father: And you can bet Mommy'll like it when she sees it.
Father: So, what do you say we thank the king of the forest and get back for our lunch?
Satsuki: I am going to go to Michiko's house.
Mei: I'm coming too!
Father: Atten-tion! (to tree) Thank you for all you've done for Mei. Please look after her and protect her forever.
Mei & Satsuki: Thank you so much.
Father: Let's see who runs back to home first! 
Satsuki: Hey, that's not fair. 
Mei: Wait! Hey! Hey, wait up!
Satsuki: (voice over) Dear Mother, I have a wonderful story today.
Satsuki: Mei actually met a ghost - Totoro! 
Satsuki: I am really hoping that I get to see himm too.

(Next morning)
Kanta's Mother: Kanta! You'd better hurry up, or you'll be late!
Kanta: <O>K!

Satsuki: There. (sees Mei outside with Granny) Huh? Mei, what ... . Excuse me!
Teacher: Yes?
Satsuki: It's my little sister, Mei.
Satsuki: Nanny! Nanny, what happened?
Granny: Dear, I'm sorry, but she demanded to be with her sister, and simply won't listen.
Satsuki: Because Daddy was going to be at the university (and not at home) today, 
Satsuki: Mei, you promised to be a good girl and stay with Nanny.  
Satsuki: I have a couple more hours left, Nanny has things to do too. 
Granny: Our Mei has been a very good little girl, eh?
Satsuki: Well, I <had> better ask permission for her to come inside.
Teacher: Because her mother is hospitalized, Satsuki's family may need help time to time. 
Teacher: Can you all understand the situation and be nice to her sister, Mei? 
Everyone: Yes, ma'am.
Michiko: What are you drawing, Mei?
Mei: A Totoro!
Satsuki: Shhhhh. Could you be a little more quiet about it?
Mei: Okay!

Michiko: Bye-bye, Mei. 
Satsuki: Would you let the teacher know I will miss the club meeting. 
Michiko: Sure. 
Students: See you! Bye Mei.
Mei: Bye.
Satsuki: We'd better walk fast. It looks like it's going to rain. 
Mei: <O>K.
Satsuki: Oh, no! Hurry!


Mei: I'm not crying. Am I being good?
Satsuki: Sure, but what do we do now? 
Satsuki: (Prays) If it's not too much trouble, could we stay until it stops raining?
(Kanta walks past with an umbrella, sees Satsuki, and turns around)
Satsuki: Uh ... Thanks, but...

(Kanta leaves the umbrella on the ground and runs off)
Mei: We were pretty lucky, huh?
Satsuki: Yes.
Mei: It's got holes in it...
(Later at home...)
Satsuki: Oh-oh, Daddy left home without his umbrella.
Mei: I will come along with you if you are bringing the umbrella.

(At Granny's house)
Kanta: I just forgot because I forgot!
Kanta's Mother: How can you forget your umbrella when it's raining outside?
Kanta: Ouch!
Kanta's Mother: You were probably playing with it and broke it in half or something.
Kanta: I did not!
(Satsuki & Mei come)
Satsuki: Excuse me, is anybody home?
Kanta's Mother: Satsuki, what are you doing here? Grandma!
Satsuki: Thank you for taking care of Mei today.
Kanta's Mother: Oh, don't be ridiculous, she was a treasure.
Satsuki: Well, besides that, we wanted to bring back Kanta's umbrella he let us borrow.
Kanta's Mother: Oh, okay, but why would he want to give you this beat up thing?
Satsuki: It helped us a lot (because Mei was with me today). But I'm afraid he got soaking wet. 
Satuski: Anyway, please thank him for us.
Kanta's Mother: Oh, please don't worry about him. He is always getting muddy. 
Kanta's Mother: He could use some rain shower. Are you on your way to meet your father?
Satsuki: Yes, ma'am.
Kanta's Mother: Well, that's so nice of you two.  Bye-bye, Mei. 
Mei & Satsuki: Bye!

Granny: Did someone come to the door?
Kanta: I didn't hear anything.
Satsuki: (At the bus stop; a bus is coming) Oh, boy, we made it.

Bus Conductor: (to passengers) Thank you. Thank you. (To Satsuki & Mei) <Are you> getting on board or not? (shake heads) All right, then.
Mei: Daddy wasn't on that one, right?
Satsuki: I'm sure he'll be on the next one. Do you want to go back to Nanny's house and wait there?
Satsuki: What's the matter?

Satsuki: Mei, are you getting sleepy?
Satsuki: Aw, come on now. I told you it might be a while. Do you want to go to Nanny's and wait? 
Satsuki: It won't be long. I'm sure the bus will come soon. Just hang in there. 



(Totoro arrives)
Satsuki: I bet you're Totoro.
Totoro: (growls)
Satsuki: Oh we have another umbrella, if you want <it>. (holds it out to him) Go ahead, take it. Come on, <or> I'm going to drop Mei. (he takes it) 
Satuki: You put it over your head, like that.

(Headlights approach)
Satsuki: The bus is here.
(Cat Bus arrives, and Totoro leaves)

Satsuki: Totoro took with him Daddy's umbrella...
Father: (Bus arrives) Hey, I am so sorry...
Bus Conductor: (To other passagers) We're leaving now. 
Father: The train was late and I missed the bus. You weren't worried about me, were you?
Satsuki: I saw him, I saw him! He was right beside me at the bus stop!
Mei: Me, too! We saw Cat Bus, too!
Father: Uh, uh
Satsuki: Oh, he was so big!
Mei: Great big eyeballs!
Satsuki & Mei: It was scary!
Satsuki: We saw Totoro! How wonderful! 
Mei: It was scary!

Satsuki: (Walking back) Hey, dad...(can we hang on your arms)? 

Satsuki (writing a letter): Dear Mother, my heart is still beating so fast...
Satsuki: It was a very mysterious, spooky day. 
Satsuki: Totoro gave us a fun gift.
Satsuki: It was a package wrapped up in bamboo leaves, and tied with dragon whiskers.
Satsuki: We opened it as soon as we got home, 
SatsukiL and guess what was in it? Nuts and seeds!

(Mother reading letter): (reading) We've planted them in the backyard, hoping that it becomes a forest one day. 
(Mother reading letter): but
(Mother reading letter): It hasn't sprouted yet. 
(Mother reading letter): <Mei just> sits there every day, waiting for them to sprout. 
(Mother reading letter): She is just like the Crub in the Monkey & Crub folklore.  
Mother: (chuckles)
(Mother reading letter): It's going to be summer vacation soon. I hope you get well soon. 
(Mother reading letter): dear mom, from Satsuki.

(Bedtime, Satsuki and Mei are playing on the mosquito netting)
Father: Come on, get off. I said get off! Come on, it's bed time.


Father: Can I turn the lights off? 
Satsuki: just a second. 
Mei: Daddy? Will the plants come out? I mean will they come out tomorrow?
Father: That's tough to say. Perhaps Totoro will be able to say if they will. Good night.
Satsuki: (Later, Satsuki wakes up and sees Totoros in the yard) Wake up, Mei!
Mei: Huh?
Satsuki:  That's where we planted the seeds ...
Mei: Yeah!










(They do a dance with the Totoros. The seeds grow into a large forest) Mei It worked!





(Satsuki & Mei climb onto Totoro, and they fly around) Satsuki: We are part of the wind! 



(The next morning, the magic forest is gone.) Mei: What happened to the tree?
Satsuki: Hey!
Mei: Hey, wait!
(At the garden, some of the seeds have sprouted) Satsuki: We did it!
Mei: We did it!
Satsuki: We did it! Yeah! It was a dream...
Mei: But, it wasn't a dream!
Satsuki: It was a dream...
Mei: It wasn't a dream! 
Satsuki & Mei: We did it!

(Later....)
Mail Man: Mr. Kusakabe. It's telegram. Hello? Anyone home? Hm. Maybe not.
(In Granny's vegetable patch) Mei: Nanny!
Granny: Over here, Mei. (pointing at corn) That one's perfect.

Satsuki: About how ripe is this?
Granny: That's ripe.
Satsuki: Wow. Your vegetable garden is like a mountain of treasure!
Granny: Thanks to Mother Nature. Let's take a little break, shall we?
Granny: (lifting vegetables from water) There we are, <they're> nice and cold.
Satsuki: Delicious. 
Granny: Oh yeah? These vegetables grew with a lot of sunshine, and they must be so good for your body.   
Satsuki: They wouldn't help my mother, would they?
Granny: Of course they would. My vegetable garden is bound to make anyone feel better in no time at all.
Satsuki: Our mother's coming back home this Saturday from the hospital..
Mei: And she's going to come sleep with me in my futon. 
Granny: That's wonderful. She's finally able to come back, is she?
Satsuki: Un-uh. She's coming home to spend a couple of days, but then has to go right back there on Monday. 
Satsuki: She has to take it slow.  
Granny: Yes, she has. But we'll fatten her up on my fresh vegetables.
Mei: I'm going to give Mommy this corn I picked for her.
Granny: And I'm sure she'll love you for it.
Mei: Um-hmm.
(Kanta comes running up) Kanta: <The> mailman gave me this telegram <be>cause you were out. Here.
Satsuki: Is that for our house? 
SatsukiL Daddy won't be home till the evening.
Granny: Open it now, then. A telegram can be important.

Satsuki: Um-hmm. (reading) "Please contact us, Shichikokuyama..."
Satsuki: Shichikokuyama hospital! That's where my mom is. I know something awful's happened to her. 
Satsuki: What am I supposed to do if my father's not home? Thye said to call them... 
Granny: Listen, you must be calm. Have you any way of calling your father?
Satsuki: I have the number of his lab, but we don't have a telephone.
Granny: (to Kanta) Take them to the main (family) house and ask for the phone. 
(Kanta nods)
Granny: (to Satsuki) Don't go, stay here, Mei. 
Satsuki: Hey, Mei, don't follow me! Go to Nanny's house!
Satsuki: (on phone) Hello, Operator? I'd like to make a long distance call, please. It's number 1382 at Tokyo station 31. Yes. 
Old woman: (to Kanta) Your friend is very pretty. 
(The phone rings) Satsuki: Hello? Yes. 
Satsuki: Can you put me through to the Anthropology lab? To Professor Kusakabe. That's my father. 
Satsuki: I'm Satsuki Kusakabe. 
Satsuki: Dad, it's me, Satsuki. 
Father: Oh, hi. What's happening? ...okay, from the hospital.
Father: Oh, OK, it's all right. I'm going to call the hospital right now...
Satsuki: (interupts) What's wrong with Mommy? 
Father: Everything's going to be all right. I'm going to check with the hospital and call you right back. OK? OK?
Father: You stay where you are.
Satsuki: Uh-huh.
Father: I'm hanging up now, so you stay right there.
Satsuki: He's going to be calling back, so is it alright if I stay right here by the telephone and wait?
Old Woman: You take all the time you need.

(Outside...)
Mei: Hey, where are you!
Goat: meh
Mei: Uh-oh. Oh, no! This corn is for mommy, not yours. 
Goat: meh
Mei: NO! I am giving this to mommy. 
Satsuki: Mei, the hospital said that mommy's condition isn't very good. 
Satsuki: So she isn't going to be coming home just yet.
Mei: No! 
Satsuki: Mei, what can we do? If she came home now, it'd only make it worse.
Mei: It would not!
Satsuki: But, she'll be able to come home real soon!
Mei: No!
Satsuki: All right, then, be that way! Let's see if she dies!
Mei: No!
Satsuki: Don't be dumb, Mei! Oh, I give up. You're so stupid!
(Satsuki runs off) Kanta: Come on, Mei.
Mei: You stupid, Satsuki. 
(At the house...) Granny: We need to finish the laundry. Come on, now. It isn't the end of the world. 
Nanny: Your old Nanny's here to help. Cheer up now.



Nanny: Your father's going to be stopping off at the hospital on his way home, eh? What I heard was that your mother only caught a small cold. Mm-mmm. She'll be home next weekend, I believe.
Satsuki: That's what they said <the> last time, too. "It'll be a little visit. Just a few days to see what's wrong with her. It's just a cold." What are me and Mei going to do if Mommy dies?
Granny: Uh
Satsuki: What are we going to do, Nanny? (begins to cry)
Granny: There, there. Don't worry. Your mother's not going to die.
(Mei in background, listening)
Granny: Hush. She'd never leave two such beautiful children. She loves you too much for that. Don't cry. Nanny will stay with you until your father comes home.
(Mei runs off with the ear of corn. No one sees her leave)

(Later, Satsuki & Granny are searching for Mei)
Granny: Mei? Where are you?
Satsuki: Mei! Mei, come back!
(Satsuki & Granny meet)
Satsuki: Did you see her anywhere?
Granny: No sign at all. She wasn't at the bus stop?
Satsuki: (shakes head)
Granny: That's very strange. Where could she possibly have gone off to?
Satsuki: Maybe she's angry about this morning. We had a bad argument, and - Oh! Maybe she went off to visit Mommy in the hospital!
Granny: But the hospital's so far from here. It's, oh my heavens, why, it would take a grown man three hours to get there!
(Satsuki runs off, passes Kanta)
Kanta: Hey!
Granny: Oh my goodness! (to Kanta) Please, you must get your father right now. You must tell him that little Mei has disappeared!

(Satsuki, running)
Satsuki: (to herself) How could you do something so stupid, Mei! You always get lost!

Satsuki: Mei!

Satsuki: (calling to a farmer) I'm sorry to bother you, but you, well you haven't seen a little girl come by this way, have you? She's my sister, about 5 years old.
Farmer: Well, <it> seems to me I remember someone. Ah, yes, uh, near as I can recall, she went that way.
Satsuki: (to herself) Maybe she went through the forest.
Farmer: Then again, she might've gone in the other direction. Are you sure it was your sister? All sorts of folks come by here, but I don't see them.
Satsuki: (to herself) Mei, I'm scared. (to Farmer) Thank you.

Satsuki: Mei!

(Satsuki, in road)
Satsuki: Please stop!
Driver: Ah! Hey, are you crazy, kid?
Satsuki: I'm looking for my sister. Have you seen a little girl wandering around?
Passenger: I'm afraid not.
Satsuki: Mei's her name, and she's about 5 years old. She probably got herself lost.
Driver: We haven't seen anyone, have we?
Passenger: (shakes head)
Satsuki: I think she's going to Shichikokuyama.
Passenger: We just came from there, but we haven't come across anybody for the last couple of hours. I'm sorry.
Satsuki: Well, um, thank you.
Driver: By the way, where are you from?
Satsuki: Um, Matsu-go.
Driver: You walked from there to here?
Passenger: That's over three hours away!
Driver: Yeah. Well, good luck, kid.
(Drives off)
Passenger: I hope you find her.

(Kanta rides up on a bicycle)
Kanta: Satsuki! Wait! Come here!
Satsuki: Kanta!
Kanta: We haven't found her yet. How about you?
Satsuki: Nothing.
Kanta: Hey, my dad's got everyone in the village searching for her, so you go home and I'll bike to Shichikokuyama. OK?
Satsuki: But I'm afraid if she goes to visit Mommy's hospital, she'll completely lose her <way.>
Kanta: (interrupts) Wait a second. Somebody found some sandals by the lake half an hour ago. There's no way she can get past all those people without someone noticing.
Satsuki: Ah! (runs off)
Kanta: Hey, don't worry. Nobody said they were Mei's sandals!

(Passing the farmer)
Farmer: Did you find her yet?

(At the pond, men are searching the water with long poles)
Granny: (praying)
Man 1: Go back a bit over towards your right! You haven't covered that area!
Man 2: Hey, <do> you have any poles left?
Michiko: There's Satsuki!
Granny: Eh?
Michiko: Look!
Satsuki: Mei! Mei!
Granny: (Showing Satsuki the sandal) Look, Satsuki. Is it hers?
Satsuki: It's not hers.
Granny: What? Oh, merciful heavens. You know, Satsuki, for a while I thought it might be Mei's.
Kanta's Uncle: Mom, I told you <that> you jumped to conclusions too fast.
Man 2: Hey, boys! Forget it! Stop! It isn't hers!
Man 3: So, what do we do now?
Man 4: Well, we keep on looking, that's what.
Woman: Well, whatever you do, you'd better hurry up. It's going to be dark soon.
Kanta's Father: I'm grateful to you all. I know it's tough work, but if you could keep searching.
Man 4: Aw, don't worry, we understand.
Man 3: Hey, don't you think we should call the police maybe?
Kanta's Father: Well, I don't know, do you think the police could ...
Satsuki: (looking over at Camphor Tree) Police?
Granny: (to Satsuki) Please, where are you going?

(At the entrance to Totoro's tunnel)
Satsuki: Totoro, I beg you, please protect Mei. She'll be lost, and probably scared. Please believe me, I'll be good for the rest of my life if I can just see her again.

(Runs into tunnel. She finds Totoro)
Satsuki: What? Totoro! Totoro, Mei's lost somewhere! I've looked and looked, but I can't find her anywhere. Oh, please, you have to help me find her. She's probably alone somewhere, crying and upset. Oh, Totoro, I'm scared!

(Totoro flies with Satsuki to the top of the camphor tree and roars)
Satsuki: What?
(Cat bus runs between two farmers)
Farmer: He wouldn't be able to.
Satsuki: But how come nobody sees the bus?

(Satsuki gets in Cat Bus)
Cat Bus: Next stop, Little Sister.

Granny: Mei, where are you!

(Running through the forest, the trees lean out of the way)
Satsuki: But how does he make it do that?

Satsuki: Mei!
Mei: But Sis! Where are you! Satsuki!
Satsuki: Mei!

(Cat Bus jumps down next to Mei)
Satsuki: There you are!
Mei: Satsuki!
(hug)
Satsuki: Oh, Mei!
Mei: I'm sorry!
Satsuki: Tell me one thing. Were you bringing that corn to the hospital?
Mei: Uh-huh.
Cat Bus: (meows)
Satsuki: Ah!
Cat Bus: Next stop, Shichikokuyama Hospital.
Satsuki: <Do> you mean we can go to Mom's hospital?
Cat Bus: (meows)
Satsuki: You're wonderful!

Totoro video cover
Totoro Video Cover

Get the DVD from Amazon.com
amazon.com


(At the hospital)
Mother: I'm sorry. It was all because of my silly cold that the hospital sent you that telegram. The grief it must've caused all of you. I hope you can forgive me.
Father: It was simply a bureaucratic mistake. I'm sure it wasn't terribly traumatic for either of the girls. It just means you'll be home next weekend. They understand.
Mother: I wouldn't be at all surprised if they suffered more than we know. In particular Satsuki, because she's so smart and sensitive.
Father: Mmm. <You> could be right.
Mother: You'd better be careful after I get home, because I intend to spoil them rotten for a while.
Father: Oh, no!
(both laugh)

(Satsuki, Mei and Cat Bus are in the tree outside the window)
Mei: Look, Mommy's laughing.
Satsuki: She seems pretty healthy to me.
Mei: Yep.

(The hospital room)
Mother: Oh, I can't wait to get up on my feet again.
Father: Neither can we.
(both look at window)
Father: (picking up the ear of corn from the window sill) Now, that's weird.
Mother: (looking out the window) Oh!
Father: What happened?
Mother: Well, I'm not sure, but I could've sworn that I saw both of the girls up in the treetop, laughing.
Father: That might not be as crazy as you think. Have a look!
(Shows her the corn. On it is written, "to mother")

(Satsuki & Mei ride in Cat Bus. They meet Granny, who hugs Mei. Satsuki greets Kanta, both laugh. Closing credits show still scenes: Mother getting out of taxi, taking bath with the children, the children playing)

